AN

ENUMERATION OF SOUTH AFRIOAN
mmmm PLAHTS.

 

KNOWLTON ΪΑ. SALISB.

(RANUNCULAOEAE.)

l. Knowltom'a vesicatoria. δίνης. HerbaceouS. Leaves
triternate, leathery, smooth3 segments oval or subcordate,
sawedz lateral-ones obliquely truncate at base. Flowers
umbellate , umbel nearly unbranched, few-flowered;
flowers yellowish; pezals linear.

Every· part' of this acrid plant is used as an Epispastic.
The bruised herb, when applied to a painful part, raises a
blister. Itis therefore recommended in Rheumatism, lschias‚
LumbagO, and similar affections‚ caused by sudden atmos·
pheric changes, The root, when cut in slices, is a good
substitute for Emplastrum Janini. The plant is found in
almost every part of the Colony, and from its effects is well
known by the name of Brandbldren.

RANUNCULUS. Lm.

(RANUNpunACEAE.)

2. Ranunculus pubescens Thbq. Root fibi-ons, Stem
herbaceouS, erect‚ downy3 all the leaves hairy; the
mdical-ones petiolate‚ temate, their leaflets inciso-
dentate. Leaves of the stem either trifid or subpinnatifid,
toothed3 the uppermost sessile. Flowers stalked, single,
terminal, yellow. Calyx reflexed; carpel-s· smooth,
slightly mucronate, tuberculated.

This herb grows in ditches and marsheS, δια, and is pecu-
liar to the Cape and Uitenhage districts. The expressed
juice, when fresh, is recommended in carcinomatous ulcerS,
and therefore has received the Dutch name of K ankerbldren.

CISSAMPELOS. Lm.

(MENISPERMAOEAE.)
3. Cissampelos capensis. Lin. Stem shrubby, twining.

Leaves ovate, petiolate, blunt, entire, glabrous; leaf·

